Our text today really highlights a very important kind of relationship.
It's our friendship with our God, Jehovah.
Now this was really exemplified for us in the man Abraham.
The Bible in several areas says that Jehovah called him his friend.
Now this was indeed a great honor to be called Jehovah's Friend.
Now why is it that Jehovah felt so close to Abraham that he called him his friend?
The book of James in chapter 2, verse 23, highlights some points about what it is about Abraham that made him so dear to Jehovah God that he drew close to him to call him his friend.
And in verse 23 where the, of course the concluding phrase says, and he came to be called Jehovah's Friend,
and we look the context of the paragraph of this scripture.
We see that Abraham lived a life of faith, not just expressing faith in Jehovah, but actually living faith.
Doing everything that Jehovah God told him to do, and did so in complete faith, and exactly the way Jehovah expressed him or told him to do it.
It culminated really when Jehovah told him to go sacrifice his son Isaac.
And if we stop and think for a moment, what a great privilege that drama was for Abraham to reenact, to actually play the part of Jehovah God himself.
And that really shows how close Jehovah felt towards Abraham and the trust that he had towards Abraham, that he would fulfill this drama, to really demonstrate to all of us the depth of Jehovah's love for mankind,
but also to really show exactly that he really was a friend of Abraham's.
Friendships like that of Jehovah and Abraham are truly rewarding and very satisfying and they're needed.
But at times they can also be a little bit challenging as even Abraham would attest, because he had to fulfill a very difficult assignment on several occasions
in order to maintain Jehovah's friendship.
But the Bible paints a very interesting definition for friendship.
If we look at the Proverbs especially, we think of Proverbs 18 verse 24, where it says there are companions ready to crush one another, but there is a friend who seeks closer than a brother.
And then Proverbs 17, 17, a true friend shows love all at all times and is a brother who was born for times of distress.
And further at Proverbs 27, 6, it says the wounds inflicted by a faithful, by a friend are faithful.
Now when we put all these thoughts together, we get a very deep and beautiful composite definition for what a true friend really is, according to Jehovah's standards and not man's.
We see that true friendship means going the distance with our brothers and sisters, our friends, showing them love, especially even when it is difficult to do so.
And even at times giving our friends some helpful counsel and direction when they need it.
So we can see friendships are not only rewarding, but even necessary.
We weren't made to go life alone.
We need friends.
As created in Jehovah's image, he chose different ones to be his friend.
And so likewise, we need to follow his example and build friendships with our others.
In the Bible, there are several very good examples of friendships that existed between men.
We think of David and Jonathan, Paul and Timothy, even Jesus Christ.
He loved his apostles, but there were those whom he was particularly close to, such as Peter and John, and of course Lazarus and his two sisters.
And of course, we cannot forget the loving friendship that Ruth and Naomi had towards one another.
Now, if we just look on the surface, we wonder why it is that such ones were even friends with one another.
At times, great age differences were in evidence there.
Even perhaps maybe some cultural differences, or maybe it wasn't socially or politically advantageous to be good friends.
Nevertheless, these individuals were very close friends.
And how nicely this was portrayed in this month's broadcast, too, where we saw the young man Achille develop a close relationship with an older brother in the congregation.
Now, why?
What was the foundation or the reason for such friendships?
It was their mutual love and devotion to Jehovah God.
That is what really lays a firm foundation for true friendship.
And this is the key, isn't it?
We know that in reviewing the accounts of these individuals, it is noted that how their love for God superseded anything of a physical nature.
This unswerving faithfulness to God is what enabled them to be a friend according to Jehovah's definition and his word, the Bible.
This is in contrast to friendships in the world, which are oftentimes based on circumstances or situations or even perhaps a social status.
We think of children in school, they develop friendships there because of being in class together in the situation there.
Or perhaps workmates develop a good working relationship with one or work well together.
And they may even consider one another friends.
Some may even develop a very strong bond, emotional bond, because of a certain situation that they have undergone together.
Now, while many of these say, well, this will last forever, we realize that they quickly can dissolve.
But not friendships based on Jehovah's love.
Jehovah endures forever. He is for time indefinite, and so any friendship based on the love of God is similar.
Now, like to Abraham, to all those whom Jehovah calls friends, he also gives us work to do, assignments to carry out, and in order to maintain a friendship with Jehovah, he expects us to carry them out according to his directions in order to maintain the friendship.
And we thank today how wonderfully our brothers and sisters are volunteering to serve in areas where the need is greater, offering themselves willingly in obedience to Jehovah's command to preach the good news, to put Kingdom interest first, despite any perhaps physical sacrifices that they may endure.
How we see that today.
Just recently, I had the privilege of visiting the India branch on a branch visit, and there they reviewed me some special campaigns that they had organized, and the results.
And it's fascinating to consider how our brothers and sisters gave of themselves in order to maintain their friendship with God to put His Kingdom interest first, and how Jehovah richly blessed them.
Consider one special campaign that took place recently, there were some 250 brothers and sisters from North America and Western Europe, all of Indian descent, came to participate in a special preaching campaign, and consider one of the blessings, or some of the blessings, actually many of the blessings.
In one village, the local congregation, which was so many miles away, was conducting several Bible studies by phone with individuals.
Now, because the special campaign there, the brothers and sisters were sent to this village to meet up with these Bible students to see how they were doing.
Well, when they arrived, they were surprised to see that at each home of a Bible student, at least 15 to 20 other people were there in attendance, wanting to hear more about the Kingdom of Good News.
In addition, this group was sent to another village, and when our brothers arrived, what greeted them were some 275 people who were gathered at one of the Bible students home, all thirsting for Kingdom truth.
Well, the publishers quickly divided up the group into 20s, and they taught group Bible studies of 20s to interested persons.
One person came up and said, I've got a relative in another city, I want you to go call on her, she's a pastor.
Well, what happens is when the brothers called on that woman who was a pastor, there, and her apartment, she had 70 others gathered to hear the Kingdom of Good News.
A similar experience can be seen in the deaf field, one brother was sent to, was given a referral slip, and he had to travel some four hours on a train to this village.
And when he arrived, he was greeted at the train station by over 130 deaf people wanting to hear the Kingdom of Good News.
A group was started, and now a year later, they have over 50 attending meetings regularly.
We can see that the brothers and sisters are responding to Jehovah's direction to expand the Kingdom ministry, and to cultivate their friendship with God.
What a blessing.
Certainly, such blessings make us echo David's words at Psalm 63 where he said, your loyal love, yes, your friendship is better than life itself.